# Determining Spoilers in Movie Reviews - Annotation Guidelines
*Collaborators: Jaewon Lee, Jasmine Ang, Ashley Eastman*

## 1. Introduction
The purpose of this annotation project is to determine whether or not a movie review contains a spoiler or not. To take it a step further, we plan to identify the severity of the spoiler, if any. We are using user reviews from IMDB from the following movies:
- Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone (2001)
- Star Wars: The Force Awakens (2015)
- Batman Begins (2005)

For a given target entity, the task of the annotator is to identify the following:
1. Major Spoiler 
2. Minor Spoiler
3. No Spoiler

For each type of spoiler, we will identity specific information to determine the severity of the spoiler, if any:

#### <u> Terms </u>
We identity specific terms that could correspond to a movie review containing a major, minor or no spoiler. 

Examples include:

*"ending"
"twist"
"surprise"
"reveal"
"tragic"
"plot"
"spoiler"
"shocking"
"unexpected"
"climax"
"resolution"
"major event"
"key moment"
"biggest surprise"
"final scene"
"turning point"
"death"
"killed"
"revealed"
"unveiled"
"explained"
"unexpectedly"
"betrayal"
"backstory"
"flashback"
"foreshadowing"
"subversion"
"surprising turn"
"major twist"
"final act"
"ending scene"
"final showdown"
"major plot point"*

## 2. General Annotation Guidelines for Terms
**What terms in the movie review should be annotated as terms?**

1. Verb phrases that explicitly mention terms associated with spoilers 
Examples include:
- When character A was **killed** in the last episode, my heart sank.
- I was shocked when character B was **betrayed** by character A!

2. Adjectives that describe terms associated with spoiler
Examples include:
- It was incredibly **shocking** when I found out in the next episode that character A was actually alive afterall!
- The most **jaw-dropping** moment of the second season was when character A and character B died together. It was so **emotional** for me to watch

## 3. Annotation Guidelines for **Major Spoilers**
**What constitutes a movie review to be a major spoiler?** 
Our group has decided to classify a review to contain major spoilers that meet the following criteria:
1. A character(s) dying
2. Revealing a major plot twist by giving away explicit details (i.e something happening to or by the characters, especially main characters)


## 4. Annotation Guidelines for **Minor Spoilers**
**What constitutes a movie review to be a major spoiler?** 
1. Revealing information about the movie that was not previously revealed in the movie trailer or movie description
2. etc (need to finish these)

## Annotation Rating Guidelines
Our annotations are rated from 1 through 3 with 3 being the least likely to contain a spoiler, i.e no spoiler, and 1 being mostly likely to contain a major spoiler. 

### Rating 1:
**Description for a rating of 1**: This movie review contains major spoilers.
**Examples**:
- "I couldnt believe when the main character died"
- "When they ran away together, that was a plot twist noone saw coming!"

### Rating 2:
**Description for rating of 2**: this movie review contains minor spoilers.
**Examples**:
- "Is it just me or does the set up of the ending seem to hint at something happening to character A in the next movie?"
- The general premise of the movie revealed, possibly more than what was shown in the movie trailer

### Rating 3: 
**Description for rating of 3**: This movie review contains no spoilers. 
** Examples**:
- I loved this movie!
- This movie sucked
- I can't wait for the next movie to come out
